## Reject using queries fingerprints provided by [pg_query](https://github.com/pganalyze/pg_query_go) library

Effective date: 2021-07-10

### Status
Do not use [pg_query](https://github.com/pganalyze/pg_query_go) fingerprints. 

### Context
`pg_query` provides unique fingerprints based on queries (better than native Postgres `queryid`). Using fingerprints, it is possible to distinguish queries extracted from many sources like pg_stat_statements, pg_stat_activity, Postgres server logs, etc. Using such fingerprints allow to identify queries independently are they normalized or not. For example, it possible to extract raw query from logs, get query from pg_stat_statements, calculate its fingerprints and match them.   

### Decision
Reject pg_query fingerprints. Since Postgres 14 there is [`compute_query_id`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/runtime-config-statistics.html#GUC-COMPUTE-QUERY-ID) introduced. The `queryid` field of pg_stat_statements become available in pg_stat_activity and server logs (with properly configured `log_line_prefix`). Also go library is CGO based which might incur possible performance drawback when calculating too often and too many fingerprints (due to direct calling C functions), but no real performance tests have been made.  

### Consequences
1. `NEGATIVE` Use native, but less effective way of calculating `queryid`.
2. `POSITIVE` Keep compatibility with Postgres in way of using common `queryid` instead of less-known fingerprint.
3. `POSITIVE` Limited support of Postgres before version 14 (which don't have `compute_query_id`).

### Extra
Small test has been made.
- build pgSCV with calculating fingerprints
- run every-second polling of `/metrics` endpoint
- compare memory usage between pgSCV running on the same host but without fingerprints
```
    PID USER      PR  NI    VIRT    RES    SHR S  %CPU  %MEM     TIME+ COMMAND                                                                                                                                                                                                
 261691 postgres  20   0 2943220   1,0g  15820 S   0,0   3,1  54:47.74 ./bin/pgscv                                                                                                                                                                                            
   7135 root      20   0  722796  26692  11268 S   0,0   0,1  92:52.66 /usr/local/pgscv/bin/pgscv --config-file=/etc/pgscv.yaml
```

- `./bin/pgscv` with fingerprints takes ~1GB RES vs. ~26MB RES of non-fingerprint version of pgSCV.  